# Go API client for paymentsdirect

Use the Payments Direct API to get quotes, create and manage payments, and manage originator and beneficiary identities.

## API environments

The Payments Direct API offers the following environments:

| <div style=\"width:90px\">Environment</div>  | Base URL                      | Description                               |
| ------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- |
| Test                                       | `https://api.test.ripple.com` | Test environment with simulated currency. |
| Production                                 | `https://api.ripple.com`      | Production environment                    |

## API authentication

All {{process.env.VAR_RPD}} API operations require a Bearer access token specific to the environment you're using. Ripple provides a secure model for authentication and authorization by providing access tokens scoped for a set of credentials.

### Generate client ID and client secret

You will need your _client ID_ and _client secret_ to obtain an access token.

If you do not already have your client ID and client secret, do the following:

1. Log into the Ripple Payments UI.
2. In the left navigation menu, click **Settings**.
3. Under **Administration**, click **API Credentials**.
4. In the dropdown list next to the page title, select the access environment. For example, to provision credentials for the test environment, select **Test** from the dropdown list.
5. In the upper right corner of the page, click **New Credential**.
6. Click **Save and Generate Key**.

**Caution:** The *client secret* is displayed only once when you are creating new credentials. You cannot retrieve the secret after exiting this page. Copy and store the client secret securely and share it with authorized individuals in accordance with your organization's security policy.

You can now use the client ID and client secret to generate access tokens using the [Request an access token](/api-docs/payments-direct-api/reference/#operation/authenticate) operation.

### Request an access token

To get an access token, use the [Request an access token](/api-docs/payments-direct-api/reference/#operation/authenticate) operation with your `client_id` and `client_secret`. The response contains a token in the `access_token` field.

We recommend rotating your API credentials at regular intervals according to your organization's security policy.

**Note**: Authentication tokens are not a fixed length and can vary, avoid validating tokens based on character length.


## Overview
This API client was generated by the [OpenAPI Generator](https://openapi-generator.tech) project.  By using the [OpenAPI-spec](https://www.openapis.org/) from a remote server, you can easily generate an API client.

- API version: 0.0.1
- Package version: 0.0.1
- Generator version: 7.14.0
- Build package: org.openapitools.codegen.languages.GoClientCodegen

## Installation

Install the following dependencies:

```sh
go get github.com/stretchr/testify/assert
go get golang.org/x/net/context
```

Put the package under your project folder and add the following in import:

```go
import paymentsdirect "github.com/GIT_USER_ID/GIT_REPO_ID/paymentsdirect"
```

To use a proxy, set the environment variable `HTTP_PROXY`:

```go
os.Setenv("HTTP_PROXY", "http://proxy_name:proxy_port")
```

## Configuration of Server URL

Default configuration comes with `Servers` field that contains server objects as defined in the OpenAPI specification.

### Select Server Configuration

For using other server than the one defined on index 0 set context value `paymentsdirect.ContextServerIndex` of type `int`.

```go
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), paymentsdirect.ContextServerIndex, 1)
```

### Templated Server URL

Templated server URL is formatted using default variables from configuration or from context value `paymentsdirect.ContextServerVariables` of type `map[string]string`.

```go
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), paymentsdirect.ContextServerVariables, map[string]string{
	"basePath": "v2",
})
```

Note, enum values are always validated and all unused variables are silently ignored.

### URLs Configuration per Operation

Each operation can use different server URL defined using `OperationServers` map in the `Configuration`.
An operation is uniquely identified by `"{classname}Service.{nickname}"` string.
Similar rules for overriding default operation server index and variables applies by using `paymentsdirect.ContextOperationServerIndices` and `paymentsdirect.ContextOperationServerVariables` context maps.

```go
ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), paymentsdirect.ContextOperationServerIndices, map[string]int{
	"{classname}Service.{nickname}": 2,
})
ctx = context.WithValue(context.Background(), paymentsdirect.ContextOperationServerVariables, map[string]map[string]string{
	"{classname}Service.{nickname}": {
		"port": "8443",
	},
})
```

## Documentation for API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *https://api.test.ripple.com*

Class | Method | HTTP request | Description
------------ | ------------- | ------------- | -------------
*AuthenticationAPI* | [**Authenticate**](docs/AuthenticationAPI.md#authenticate) | **Post** /v2/oauth/token | Request an access token
*AuthenticationAPI* | [**TestAuthToken**](docs/AuthenticationAPI.md#testauthtoken) | **Get** /v2/oauth/token/test | Test access token
*IdentitiesV2API* | [**CreateIdentityV2**](docs/IdentitiesV2API.md#createidentityv2) | **Post** /v2/identities | Create a new identity
*IdentitiesV2API* | [**DeactivateIdentityV2**](docs/IdentitiesV2API.md#deactivateidentityv2) | **Delete** /v2/identities/{identity-id} | Delete an identity
*IdentitiesV2API* | [**GetIdentitiesV2**](docs/IdentitiesV2API.md#getidentitiesv2) | **Get** /v2/identities | Get a list of identities
*IdentitiesV2API* | [**GetIdentityByIdV2**](docs/IdentitiesV2API.md#getidentitybyidv2) | **Get** /v2/identities/{identity-id} | Get an identity by ID
*LedgerPublicAPI* | [**GetBalances**](docs/LedgerPublicAPI.md#getbalances) | **Get** /v2/balances | Get available balances
*PaymentsAPI* | [**CreatePayment**](docs/PaymentsAPI.md#createpayment) | **Post** /v2/payments | Create payment
*PaymentsAPI* | [**GetPaymentById**](docs/PaymentsAPI.md#getpaymentbyid) | **Get** /v2/payments/{paymentId} | Get a payment by ID
*PaymentsAPI* | [**GetPaymentStateTransitionsById**](docs/PaymentsAPI.md#getpaymentstatetransitionsbyid) | **Get** /v2/payments/{paymentId}/states | Get state transitions by payment ID
*PaymentsAPI* | [**SearchPayments**](docs/PaymentsAPI.md#searchpayments) | **Post** /v2/payments/filter | Search payments
*PaymentsAPI* | [**UpdatePaymentLabels**](docs/PaymentsAPI.md#updatepaymentlabels) | **Patch** /v2/payments/{paymentId}/labels | Update payment labels
*QuoteAPI* | [**CreateQuoteCollection**](docs/QuoteAPI.md#createquotecollection) | **Post** /v2/quotes/quote-collection | Create quote collection
*QuoteAPI* | [**GetQuote**](docs/QuoteAPI.md#getquote) | **Get** /v2/quotes/{quote-id} | Get quote
*QuoteAPI* | [**GetQuoteCollection**](docs/QuoteAPI.md#getquotecollection) | **Get** /v2/quotes/quote-collection/{quote-collection-id} | Get quote collection


## Documentation For Models

 - [AdjustedExchangeRate](docs/AdjustedExchangeRate.md)
 - [AuthenticationRequest](docs/AuthenticationRequest.md)
 - [AuthenticationResponse](docs/AuthenticationResponse.md)
 - [CreateIdentityRequestV2](docs/CreateIdentityRequestV2.md)
 - [CreateIdentityResponse](docs/CreateIdentityResponse.md)
 - [Destination](docs/Destination.md)
 - [ErrorResponse](docs/ErrorResponse.md)
 - [FeeSummary](docs/FeeSummary.md)
 - [GetBalances200Response](docs/GetBalances200Response.md)
 - [GetBalances200ResponseBalancesInner](docs/GetBalances200ResponseBalancesInner.md)
 - [GetBalances400Response](docs/GetBalances400Response.md)
 - [GetBalances400ResponseErrorsInner](docs/GetBalances400ResponseErrorsInner.md)
 - [IdentityResponseV2](docs/IdentityResponseV2.md)
 - [IdentityTypeV2](docs/IdentityTypeV2.md)
 - [IdentityV2](docs/IdentityV2.md)
 - [ListIdentitiesResponseV2](docs/ListIdentitiesResponseV2.md)
 - [ModelError](docs/ModelError.md)
 - [Originator](docs/Originator.md)
 - [Page](docs/Page.md)
 - [Payment](docs/Payment.md)
 - [PaymentError](docs/PaymentError.md)
 - [PaymentErrorResponse](docs/PaymentErrorResponse.md)
 - [PaymentFilter](docs/PaymentFilter.md)
 - [PaymentFilterRangeType](docs/PaymentFilterRangeType.md)
 - [PaymentRequest](docs/PaymentRequest.md)
 - [PaymentSortField](docs/PaymentSortField.md)
 - [PaymentState](docs/PaymentState.md)
 - [PaymentWithDetails](docs/PaymentWithDetails.md)
 - [PaymentsResponse](docs/PaymentsResponse.md)
 - [Quote](docs/Quote.md)
 - [QuoteAmountType](docs/QuoteAmountType.md)
 - [QuoteCollection](docs/QuoteCollection.md)
 - [QuoteCollectionRequest](docs/QuoteCollectionRequest.md)
 - [QuoteError](docs/QuoteError.md)
 - [QuoteErrorResponse](docs/QuoteErrorResponse.md)
 - [QuoteStatus](docs/QuoteStatus.md)
 - [SearchPaymentsRequest](docs/SearchPaymentsRequest.md)
 - [Sort](docs/Sort.md)
 - [StateTransition](docs/StateTransition.md)
 - [StateTransitionsResponse](docs/StateTransitionsResponse.md)
 - [StateType](docs/StateType.md)
 - [TotalFeeBreakdown](docs/TotalFeeBreakdown.md)
 - [TransactionDetails](docs/TransactionDetails.md)
 - [UpdatePaymentLabelsRequest](docs/UpdatePaymentLabelsRequest.md)
 - [UpdatePaymentLabelsResponse](docs/UpdatePaymentLabelsResponse.md)
 - [UseCaseType](docs/UseCaseType.md)
 - [ValidateTokenResponse](docs/ValidateTokenResponse.md)


## Documentation For Authorization


Authentication schemes defined for the API:
### Bearer

- **Type**: HTTP Bearer token authentication

Example

```go
auth := context.WithValue(context.Background(), paymentsdirect.ContextAccessToken, "BEARER_TOKEN_STRING")
r, err := client.Service.Operation(auth, args)
```

### BasicAuth

- **Type**: HTTP basic authentication

Example

```go
auth := context.WithValue(context.Background(), paymentsdirect.ContextBasicAuth, paymentsdirect.BasicAuth{
	UserName: "username",
	Password: "password",
})
r, err := client.Service.Operation(auth, args)
```


## Documentation for Utility Methods

Due to the fact that model structure members are all pointers, this package contains
a number of utility functions to easily obtain pointers to values of basic types.
Each of these functions takes a value of the given basic type and returns a pointer to it:

* `PtrBool`
* `PtrInt`
* `PtrInt32`
* `PtrInt64`
* `PtrFloat`
* `PtrFloat32`
* `PtrFloat64`
* `PtrString`
* `PtrTime`

## Author



